Avalanche $AVAX  
https://www.avax.network/

Avalanche is a high-performance, scalable, customizable, and secure blockchain platform with a limited supply token.

Building application-specific blockchains, spanning permissioned (private) and permissionless (public) deployments.
Building and launching highly scalable and decentralized applications (Dapps).
Building arbitrarily complex digital assets with custom rules, covenants, and riders (smart assets).

Why bullish on the team ? :

Emin Gün Sirer
Cornell Prof has been in crypto since BEFORE Bitcoin.
Part of Cornell's IC3 alongwith Ari Juels.
H-index of 48 (Juels' H-index is 83), nobody in crypto comes close to these two giga-brains (Vitalik has an H-index of 27)
Close association with Sergey Nazarov and early admirer of Chainlink.
Emin spotted the ETH Dao Hack vulnerability.
Tight association with Vitalik Buterin and made Athereum a Subnet on Avalanche that fixes ETH 2.0’s shortcomings.
https://athereum.avax.network/



Why Avalanche ? :

Scalable : The core consensus engine is able to support a global network of potentially hundreds of millions of internet-connected, low and high-powered devices that operate seamlessly, with low latencies and very high transactions per second.

Decentralized : The ecosystem is designed to avoid divisions between classes of users with different interests. Crucially, there is no distinction between miners,
developers, and users.

Governable and Democratic : Enables anyone to connect to its network and participate in validation and first-hand in governance.

Interoperable and Flexible : The platform is designed from the ground up to make it easy to port existing blockchains onto it, to import balances, to support multiple scripting languages and virtual machines, and to meaningfully support multiple deployment scenarios.

Avalanche Protocol : 

Ted Yin, the inventor of the most scalable Classical Protocol right now is HotStuff which is used by Facebook and is also the chief protocol architect of Ava Labs.
Avalanche is a completely new family of Consensus Protocols, look up Team Rocket. 
4500+ TPS sub 2-second finality.
Highly decentralised, running a Node is very easy and hardware requirements are accessible to all.
Resist 51% attack (need 80% network control to take over)
The C-Chain uses the Ethereum Virtual Machine and is compatible with all of the key Ethereum tooling that has fuelled decentralized finance’s (DeFi’s) growth to-date, including MetaMask, Web3.js, Remix, Truffle Suite, and Embark Platform.
All Ethereum smart contract and infrastructure can work on AVAX out of the box which means slow DeFi running on ETH will switch to AVAX to speed it all up.
AVAX nodes will validate ATH (Athereum) which makes running a node incredibly profitable.


Subnets:

Entirely fresh scalability concept - fully independent networks can be launched on Avalanche, with near infinite customisation. Athereum is a good example of this.
Big picture - In less than a year, the best parts of the entire cryptocurrency ecosystem can be mirrored on Avalanche. Giving it all the TPS, scalability, decentralisation, speed, and interoperability of the entire ecosystem.
Avalanche is just 6months old



To counter the sudden inflation Avalanche team has already committed to immediately re-stake tokens allocated to Team & Foundation which roughly accounts for 6.15 M AVAX excluding staking rewards.

Industrial Use cases : 

Decentralized Finance (DeFi)
Asset Issuance
Automated Market Makers (AMMs)
Borrowing & Lending
Decentralized Exchanges (DEXs)
Derivatives
Insurance
Peer-to-Peer Payments
Prediction Markets
Stablecoins

Institutions, Enterprises, and Governments
Asset Issuance & Trading
Debt Financing
Digital Identity
Document Tracking
Fund Management
Insurance
Intellectual Property
Lending
Real Estate
Supply Chain


Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs)
Art
Certifications and Licenses
Collectibles
Credentials
In-game Items
Music




Avalanche Rush : 

The Avalanche foundation’s $180M liquidity mining program, onboarding DeFi (Decentralized Finance) protocols Aave and Curve to the Avalanche public blockchain.

The program, rolled out to incentivise usage of Avalanche’s layer 1 blockchain, rewards users for lending or borrowing with DeFi with not only interest on deposited tokens, but also  WAVAX (Wrapped AVAX) tokens, which can be converted back to AVAX at a 1:1 ratio.

Bootstrapped big projects like Aave, Curve and also gave a launchpad to projects like Wonderland ($TIME), Teddy Cash, Trader Joe etc. All the bluechips on ETH now found a second home where people could use the protocol multiple times a day without having people to worry about gas fees.

Most Dominant projects on Avalanche : 

Wonderland (TIME) :
Wonderland is the first decentralized reserve currency protocol available on the Avalanche Network based on the TIME token.

Trader Joe (JOE)
Trader Joe is your one-stop decentralized trading platform on the Avalanche network.

Benqi (QI)
BENQI is a non-custodial liquidity market protocol, built on Avalanche. The protocol enables users to effortlessly lend, borrow, and earn interest with their digital assets.

Abracadabra (SPELL) : 
Abracadabra.money is a spell book that allows users to produce magic internet money ($MIM) which is a stable coin that you can swap for any other traditional stable coin.

Blizz Finance (BLZZ) :
Blizz Finance is a decentralized, non-custodial liquidity market protocol operating on Avalanche.

Curve (CRV) :
Curve is a decentralized exchange liquidity pool on Ethereum designed for extremely efficient stablecoin trading

Yield Yak (YAK) : 
Yield Yak is an easy-to-use tool to earn more yield from defi farming on the Avalanche network.




Conclusion

AVAX is definitely the premier chain for EVM dApps considering the technological advancements and fee wise onboarding, so that ease of use for users and portability ( C-Chain) for devs is a really strong ongoing bull case. Even with the launch of Arbitrum there won't be projects migrating away from AVAX. ZKrollups offer a similar UX wrt Arbitrum but the bridge fees are slightly high to onboard retail who are just looking for a quick flip. Avax remains strong in this case as it is easier to operate than any other layer2/rollups.





